WT-13601 Access check script (#11115)
wiredtiger/wiredtiger: dist/access_check/MODULARITY.md

> # Rules for Modularity

Reviewer: I like the contents in this md file. Do we consider moving it to the top directory level instead of nested here to gain more visibility? Plus the mention of relative path `src/` makes it more intuitive to have this file seated at the top level.

Author: It's currently experimental. I think we should do it when it becomes mandatory.

Reviewer: Sounds good

> # Rules for Modularity

Reviewer 2: I like the content too. However it would be fair to show how the script can be used (i.e any specific option) and outputs to have an idea what errors may look like.

Reviewer 2: Sure, but we need to have a something to start from. In Q4, how do we show people what to expect from this script? What do they need to solve and what is ok to leave behind?

Author: That's going to be a part of the Playbook or will be referred from it.

## Definition of a Module

> * Whatever resides in a subdirectory under `src/` is considered to be a module.

Reviewer 2: Np: Sounds more friendly:

```suggestion
* Anything that resides in a subdirectory under `src/` is considered to be a module.
```

* The module names are pre-configured as a list of subdirectories under `src/`, with some exclusions like `include`, `checksum`, `os*`, etc. These exclusions are because these directories don’t really contain modular code. If the module name, as deduced by any method, is not in this list, there is no associated module, and the content is exempt from modularity checks.

> * Modules can have aliases. `block_cache` refers to `blkcache`, or `connection` is the same as `conn`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Modules can have aliases including but not limited to`block_cache` which refers to `blkcache`, or `connection` is the same as `conn`.
```

Reviewer 2: Yes that's why the "not limited to" is important. It's just to give a heads up with examples.

## Modules Content and Visibility Rules

### 1. File Name/Path-Based Rules

> 1. The default module for the content of a file is defined by these rules:

Reviewer 3: The current explanation defines the rules clearly, but it would benefit from a brief introduction explaining why determining a consistent module name is important before discussing modularity. Additionally, clarifying why headers in the include/ directory take precedence (e.g., they define public interfaces) would help provide context for the rules.

Author: We generally have all of these docs in our internal documentation. The reason I wanted to include this in the repo is that some developers may not have access to the company's internal documentation, but their code still needs to comply with these rules.

   1. If the file is not in the `include` directory, the module is the topmost subdirectory name after `src/`.
   2. For files in `include/`, the module name is derived from the file name with `.h` and `_inline` stripped.

> 2. If the file name contains `_private`, everything in that file is considered private by default. Otherwise, everything is public by default.

Reviewer: Do "private" and "public" here refer to the scope of functions/classes in that file? 1st reading makes me think of file read permission (which I believe is not the case).

Reviewer: Further reading down the next few sections gave me more clarity (that it's about identifier scope). It's probably useful to describe "private" and "public" here explicitly.

### 2. Identifier Name-Based Rules

1. If the name starts with the `__wt_` prefix, the content is considered public.
2. If the name starts with the `__wti_` prefix, the content is private.

> 3. If the `__wt_` or `__wti_` prefix is followed by a valid module name and an underscore, the content is considered part of that module.

Reviewer 3: The rules are clear, but a few key clarifications - 

- It would help to specify that these rules apply to names of functions, structs, macros, struct fields, etc., so it’s clear that they cover all identifier types.
- It might be worth mentioning how these rules relate to the header file name - that if a file is private (e.g., using a _private.h suffix), these naming rules don't apply, as the file’s private status takes precedence.

Author: The line below does that. Let me know if it's not clear enough.

This applies to all identifiers like function or struct names, record members, variables, type names, etc.

### 3. Comment Tag-Based Rules

1. A comment is considered to describe an entity if it precedes the entity or follows it on the same line.

> 2. If the entity’s comment includes `#public` or `#private`, the visibility is set accordingly and it belongs to the current context’s module.

Reviewer: Would "the current module" be more readable, or the "context's" is important here?

Author: Yeah I think, I can delete everything starting with "and it belongs ..."
